$Id: conventions.txt 133 2008-10-31 17:52:43Z unsaved $

Your goal should be code that looks like this
    http://java.sun.com/docs/codeconv/html/CodeConventions.doc10.html#182
The rest of file explains slight additions and modifications to Sun's code
conventions:
    http://java.sun.com/docs/codeconv/html/CodeConventions.doc.html

Do not commit text files with tab characters.  Your editor should have a
setting to automatically convert tabs to spaces.  If not, then use
"expand" (available for all UNIXes + Cygwin) or any other home-made or
off-the-shelf tab-expander.

Don't use liberal import statements.  Using wild-card imports has indeed
made much extra work for me when I refactored this project.  Most times
I have to guess what package an unknown XML or utility class comes from,
because it would take too much time to search all the libraries.  It has
also caused otherwise unnecessary name collisions when upgrading or
switching third party libs, and upgrading the Java JVM.  For the same
reasons, if you copy and paste a .java file to use as a starting point
for a new class, at some point review the import statements and remove
the unnecessary ones (all IDEs can do this for you).

Nobody has ever benefitted by separating groups of import statements by
blank lines.  If there are 3 java.util imports followed by 2 java.io
imports followed by 8 net.wast.webapp imports, it couldn't be easier
to find the group you are looking for.
Just group imports sequentially (if at all), without the blank lines.

Be conservative with white space.  E.g., don't ever put white space where
it is totally useless, like blank spaces at ends of lines; or blank
lines at the very beginning of a file, the very end of a file, or
right after "{" or right before "}".  The Eclipse code template system has
a bug where it inserts blank lines right after { and right before }.  Remove
those blank lines after running the formatter.
NOTE:  Don't think that I'm discouraging standard use of whitespace where
it is required to discern the tokens.  This happens a lot in this code-base,
but it is not my doing:
BAD:  int tree_depth=getFolderTree(subfolders[i],xml_folder,subscribed_only);
GOOD: int tree_depth = getFolderTree(subfolders[i], xml_folder, subscribedOnly);

Unless there is a good design reason (and sometimes there are), use camelBack
variable and member naming.  This is a JAVA product, so try to code like a
Java developer:  "subscribedOnly", not "subscribed_only".

Be conservative with comments.  Do not write your development history
in the source code.  That is what we use Subversion for.

Don't let your IDE clutter our source code with garbage.  If your IDE
writes template stuff which is not exactly right and which you do not
manually correct, then change your IDE setup to not write those templates.

Don't mis-use RCS keywords.  Whether using IDE templating or not, don't
use RCS keywords in JavaDoc elements @author, @since, @version.  For
the first two, Subversion (or CVS for that matter) will keep updating
these values, but their only purpose is to record the static values at
edit time.  For the latst (@version), what the reader will want to
know is the "release version", not the change-control revision.

When making a new file, copy the Copyright (and file Id$) boilerplate from
an existing file of the same type, and update the Copyright date if necessary.

Use block indents of 2 spaces for all *.xml files (incl. *.xsl and *.dtd),
and for HTML code in *.html, *.jsp, or fragment files (because of the copious
nesting of HTML).

Use block indents of 4 for all other computer languages (Javascript, Perl,
PHP, Java, CSS).

Miminize nesting.  Unnecessary nesting makes code more complex and more
difficult to understand for no reason (not to mention highly nested code
doesn't fit in the width of a normal editor).  Detect exceptional cases early
then handle and throw/return/continue/break and be-done-with-it, instead
of making a large if/then or if/then/else structure.

Do not System.exit() except in main() methods that will never be executed
by our running app.  Do not write to System.out or System.err.  Do not
use Thread.printStackTrace(*), which amounts to the same thing.  We have
a logging facility that makes it easy to write messages and stack traces.
NOTE:  log.*(Throwable) just logs the Throwable.toString(), but
log.*(String, Throwable) logs the stack trace.

Line wrapping convention is a practical simplification to Sun's
recommendations.  Sun says to prefer to
  (a) align with start of peer element on parent line
and if that uses too much space, then
  (b) indent over 8 spaces from parent line
In 9 out of 10 cases, the first case does indeed lead to "code that's squished
up to the right margin", so let's be constent and just always indent 8 spaces!
(Actually both (a) and (b) of Sun's rules lead to counter-productive squished
up code, but I defer to industry convention and stick with the 8 rule).
If you use vim editor, it automatically wraps this way for you.
Also, as Sun says, prefer to set the break point earlier (if it doesn't lead
to additional wrapping).
The only exception to this is the ternary (?:) operator.  If it all fits on
one line, then any developer can easily discern the parts (so don't wrap it,
as Sun suggests), but otherwise follow Sun's rules and try to break before
the ? and : operators.
Be aware that the Eclipse formatter is set up to work exactly as I specify
(except for ternaries) by default, but it does not work, except for comments!
(Compare the Code Style Formatter settings samples with what it actually
does when you Format your code).  Once again, this totally defeats the purpose
of having a code "formatter".  If using a formatter which can't wrap lines
according to our conventions, disable the wrapping feature of the formatte.
(In Eclipse, this is accomplished by setting the max line size to like 1000).
Any decent editor can automatically wrap your lines at column 80 for you.  So,
in the worse case, when typing new code into your editor, you just need to hit
your space bar twice after your editor auto-wraps the first time for each code
statement.
EXCEPTION:  Sun's rule for ternary expression wrapping works great, except
(a) if the entire side* fits on one line, then don't wrap!, and (b) if Sun's
rules result in more wrapping, then fall back to normal 8-space indenting
(preferring to break before the ? and : operators).
(By "side", I mean the LHS or RHS, like in
            boolean myBool =
                someOtherVariable == null ? "default value" : extra.getSome();
the RHS consists of a ternary which doesn't need to be split at all.
